;;; Development plans:

;; The design plan for Vimpulse has been to only emulate features that
;; are in Vim. This is a neat guideline, and Vimpulse should certainly
;; strive to be neat. But it overlooks the fact that Vim is almost as
;; extensible an editor as Emacs.
;;
;; Extensibility requires transparency. Much of Vimpulse's code is at
;; present convoluted and difficult to understand. This is partly due
;; to Vimpulse's inconsistent dependence upon Viper. Disentangling
;; Vimpulse from Viper would go a long way to improve matters. If
;; nothing else, a bug in Vimpulse is infinitely preferable to one
;; outside it -- the former can, after all, be fixed.
;;
;; Another priority is for Vimpulse to integrate well with standard
;; Emacs functionality. This is not always possible, and various
;; "Vimpulse specifics" get invented as a result. The less Vimpulse
;; requires, and the less it invents, the better. If there must be
;; red tape, it should be justified in some way -- preferably by
;; a tangible, major feature.
;;
;; Refactoring is likely to introduce bugs and should happen on a
;; separate "development" branch. Whenever that branch matures, it
;; can be merged into the "master" branch, where bugfixes and minor
;; improvements go in the meantime.

;;; Development goals:

;; - Clean up Visual mode's code. There are some good ideas in there,
;;   but they are lost in a tangle of "just-so" rules. In particular,
;;   the concept of a "range" encompasses more than expansion and
;;   contraction: ranges can be measured (a line range of 2 lines),
;;   described ("Deleted 2 lines") and recreated another place in the
;;   buffer (select 2 lines about point). A `vimpulse-define-range'
;;   macro would let one define all these properties at once, and then
;;   the three Visual submodes could just point to the relevant range
;;   type: char -> inclusive, line -> line, block -> block. (The range
;;   type might even be customizable; for instance, char -> exclusive
;;   would give Emacs-like character selection.)
;;
;; - Remove Vimpulse's dependency on Viper.
;;
;;     - Rewrite the motions. Since motions like "j" and "k" have a
;;       motion type of "line" -- i.e., they behave linewise in
;;       Operator-Pending mode -- a `vimpulse-define-motion' macro
;;       should be used. (However, its docstring should stress that
;;       any movement command is a valid motion, and point to a
;;       function for changing the motion type.)
;;
;;         - Although the standard motions don't need it, more
;;           facilities for letting a motion control the operator
;;           calling it could be useful with regard to extensions.
;;           Presently, a motion may set `vimpulse-inhibit-operator'
;;           to t to disable the operator altogether. A special
;;           function call could allow the motion to execute the
;;           operator code inside itself, Viper-like, so that the
;;           motion could execute code after the operator code.
;;
;;     - Rewrite the copy/paste system. The right way to implement
;;       line pasting is not to investigate whether the text ends with
;;       a newline, but to tag it with an appropriate `yank-handler'
;;       property; similarly for block pasting. (XEmacs does not
;;       support `yank-handler' natively, but awareness of this could
;;       be built into the paste commands.) "M-y" (`yank-pop') may
;;       need to be advised with regard to cursor position.
;;
;;     - Rewrite the repeat system. The current system is text-based,
;;       like Vim's: the text between the entry point and the exit
;;       point is repeated. A simpler and more straightforward
;;       implementation would be to remember the actual keystrokes --
;;       in effect turning every insertion into a keyboard macro.
;;       (Thus, for example, it is no longer necessary to "measure"
;;       and "recreate" Visual selections; the keystrokes do the job.)
;;       However, there are some pitfalls to this approach: certain
;;       keys, such as "M-/" (`dabbrev-expand'), may behave
;;       differently in other places in the buffer. Thus, the repeat
;;       history may need to record some commands as "insertions"
;;       rather than keystrokes.
;;
;;     - Rewrite the state system. This is already halfway done. What
;;       remains is to define vi (command) state, Insert state and
;;       Replace state (and Emacs state?) in terms of
;;       `vimpulse-define-state', and add code for enabling vi state
;;       in all buffers.
;;
;;         - `vimpulse-define-state' should provide an option for
;;           specifying the cursor. Actually, two options: one for the
;;           general case and one when running in the terminal. The
;;           user could then associate different cursor colors with
;;           different states, since Emacs is unable to change the
;;           cursor shape in the terminal.
;;
;;         - Furthermore, `vimpulse-define-state' could be simplified
;;           considerably. :diehard-mode? :kbd-map?
;;           :global-modifier-local-user-map? In no way are all of
;;           these necessary. Since `vimpulse-define-key' creates
;;           extra maps as needed, ideally each state needs only
;;           correspond to one keymap.
;;
;;         - Each state should have an entry hook and an exit hook.
;;           For example, while the `dabbrev-expand' thing that Viper
;;           does when one hits ESC is horrible in the hardcoded case,
;;           it could very well go into a hook as a user
;;           customization.
;;
;;     - Rewrite Ex. This is probably the last thing that needs to be
;;       done, as it is quite independent from the other parts of
;;       Viper. Vimpulse's Ex should integrate with Emacs: all that
;;       can be done with "M-x" and "M-:" should be possible with ":".
;;       For example, one could type ":sort-lines" just as well as
;;       "M-x sort-lines", or ":(setq foo bar)" instead of
;;       "M-: (setq foo bar)". This would help unburden the overloaded
;;       ESC key in terminal mode.
;;
;; - Throw away old code. If there is an immediate payoff to
;;   refactoring, this is it. Most of the stuff in
;;   vimpulse-compatibility.el can be purged by making such buffers
;;   come up in a "Vim light" mode. Additional adjustments can be made
;;   on a per-mode basis with `vimpulse-define-key'.

;;; Undecided development questions:

;; These are mostly outdated.
;;
;; - Make sure I have added all stuff in Brad's Viper additions and
;;   from my collection, then start documenting already. Once there
;;   are even the simplest of docs (a nice keymap), people will have a
;;   far easier time using Vimpulse and so I bet more will contribute.
;;
;; - Folding. This should be implemented as a separate Lisp library
;;   usable for even non-Viper users. Which foldmethods to do first?
;;   I personally only use foldmethod=marker, and even that rarely.
;;
;; - i_C-(I forgot the letter) should do (copy-from-above-command 1)
;;   from misc.el.
;;
;; - Add :set spell / :set nospell that uses flyspell-mode.
;;
;; - Add support for tabs.el, a tabs mode that works sensibly (get it
;;   from Emacs Lisp List).
;;     - Minimum needed: :tabedit, :tabnext, :tabprevious.
;;     - Since I'm emulating Vim, emulate its tab pages feature. So a
;;       tab page should be able to hold one or more buffers.
;;
;; - Add Customize option to let users stop "C-r" from being Redo?
;;
;; - Copy more features from Brad's work in darcs and from vimpact
;;   into Vimpulse.
;;
;; - Doc: look in Google chat log, find description of one-char-off
;;   bug, see if it applies to this or to the not-yet-released
;;   viper-x, and if to this, mention under Bugs.
;;
;; - Doc: list all new keys (and maybe all differences from Viper) in
;;   Usage section.
;;
;; - Doc: describe all new keys in Usage section; can look at Vim
;;   manual for ideas.
;;
;; - Modify how tramp works so it also automatically handles URLs
;;   typed in the netrw syntax, e.g., http:// etc. But first ask tramp
;;   upstream if they could please make those changes themselves.
;;
;; - Improve "CTRL-O" for jumping back in the jumplist and "CTRL-I" for
;;   jumping forwards (for undoing one "CTRL-O"). The global mark ring
;;   is not what I want. I wonder if Emacs' tags functionality allows
;;   a jumplist. I wonder if Viper does tags like nvi does.
;;     - Try code.google.com/p/ejumplist/source/browse/trunk/jumplist.el
;;
;; - On my PC (I run Ubuntu), if you start plain Vim and then press
;;   "CTRL-O" many times, it starts opening recently opened files. Is
;;   that useful? Should Vimpulse have persistent jump table
;;   functionality like that, and if so, should it use recentf or
;;   Vim's .viminfo file or some tag functionality in Emacs? How will
;;   it interact with the fact that in Emacs, it's not traditional to
;;   suddenly close files without warning?
;;
;; - Make sentence movement work like in Vim. I wonder if this can be
;;   done by setting Viper options.
;;     - In Vim, according to :help sentence, end of sentence is:
;;         - ".", "?", or "!"
;;         - then (optionally) one or more """, "'", ")", and "]"
;;           characters
;;         - then a newline, space, or tab.
;;         - A paragraph or section boundary is also a sentence
;;           boundary, but I bet Viper handles that, and if it doesn't,
;;           it should.
;;             - A paragraph begins after each truly empty line (no
;;               whitespace chars on it) or after certain col-1 nroff
;;               macros. A sentence begins after a form feed (^L), or
;;               certain nroff macros, in column 1.
;;             - The characters "{" and "}" sometimes affect paragraph
;;               definitions. See :help paragraph.
;;     - In Viper, on the other hand, I bet sentences are like in vi,
;;       where tabs aren't whitespace, and you need at least two spaces
;;       after the punctuation mark.
;;
;; - E-mail ridip <rdp at inthefaith.net> and ask him for his Vimpulse
;;   contribs and his DVORAK stuff.
;;
;; - E-mail to Tromey for upload into ELPA? We'd have to redo this
;;   when a new major version comes out. Or maybe we should just
;;   contribute some auto-ELPA-management code. By the way, should we
;;   move Vimpulse into CVS somewhere?
;;
;; - Maybe merge all feature requests that anyone has ever sent into a
;;   "Feature requests" section here.
;;
;; - In Vimpulse, like in real Vim, "C-r" only does Redo in vi (command)
;;   mode; in Insert mode it does something else. (In Vimpulse that
;;   "something else" is reverse isearch.) Should it do reverse
;;   isearch in Insert mode too?
;;
;; - I want to allow buffer-switching without using the "C-x" key, since
;;   "C-x b RET" an extremely large amount of times per day is
;;   uncomfortable for my right pinky, which presses RET. There's
;;   already :b, which seems to just invoke `switch-to-buffer'. Is this
;;   right? Is it bad if I make Vimpulse emulate set autowrite=on
;;   then write new multi-buffer code? What should the code's user
;;   interface be like? I really should switch back to Vim for a day,
;;   learn more about how it deals with multiple buffers at once (and
;;   maybe also with tab pages) and emulate whatever of Vim's is most
;;   convenient. What do you think of all the above?
;;     - Update: IIRC, :set hidden lets you switch buffers w/o saving
;;     - Update from Sebastien Rocca Serra: :set wildmenu plus
;;       tab-completion makes :b very pleasant to use when you have
;;       50+ buffers open. Wildmenu is almost like iswitchb or ido.
;;     - I wonder how well that stuff works with just a few buffers open.
;;
;; - Simulate Vim's set virtualedit=onemore option to make "C-x C-e"
;;   possible without first advancing to next line?
;;
;; - Would it be bad to edit users' .viminfo files without asking
;;   permission, or should some variable have to be customized on to do
;;   such a thing?
;;
;; - Is there any need to implement Vim's new
;;   [count]dk-can-go-past-top-of-file-without-error functionality (to
;;   me, no need) or any related functionality?
;;
;; - What to do about XEmacs? It doesn't ship with woman. I wonder
;;   if woman is in some XEmacs package?

